Title: Electrical Star & Planet Birth – Cosmic Z-pinch in Action
Channel: ThunderboltsProject
Format: video lecture
Url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O6ITSBJJEGs
Script:

[The logo of the Thunderbolts Project]

[a yellow text on black background saying "Space News from the Electric Universe"]
Welcome to Space News from the Electric Universe, brought to you by The Thunderbolts Project™ at Thunderbolts.info

[a orange and yellow digital art image of a star and planets in stereotypical scale]
A new scientific study attempts to rewrite the conventional story of how planets formed.

[the image of Alma and VLA telescopes with the milky way at the background]
A team of scientists, using images from the Alma and VLA telescopes, are proposing that planetary formation is a process that happens
[a digital art expression of a sun and meteors]
exponentially faster than astronomers have ever thought possible.
Space scientists have been puzzled by what appears to be an intractable
[a 3d visualization of a orange and yellow star and circular rocky disc around it]
shortage of planet-forming dust in the so-called "mature disks" of stars in the Milky Way galaxy.

[a 3d visualization of a star and rocky dust around it]
As we reported in 2018, astronomers using Alma attempted to determine how much material is present in the disks around stars
[a 3d visualization of a dim star and opaque dust around it]
that are thought to be only one to three million years old.
When they compared their estimates to the masses of
[a space themed infographic of stars and planets orbiting them without text]
star systems that have fully formed planets, they realized that the so-called "young star" systems, did not have enough matter in their discs to eventually form planets.

[a 3d visualization of a star and saturn like planets around it]
According to the new paper, scheduled for publication in Astronomy and Astrophysics, the answer to this puzzle is that
[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Planets must be formed early, study finds"]
planet formation is a much more rapid process than astronomers have ever believed.
The scientists propose that a sufficient amount of dust to form planets around a parent star, arises surprisingly early in a star's life.
As the lead author of the paper stated,
[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"..we need to look earlier instead of looking for missing mass."

[a 3d visualization of a star, meteors, planets and rocky dust around it]
The team concludes that around stars thought to be as young as 100,000 years old, planet formation has already begun.
The co-author of the paper states,
[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"The implication of this discovery is profound.
For decades, we've thought that planet formation should happen during the proto-planetary disk phase, but by pushing the beginning stage of planet formation back, we have to rethink what the birthplace of planets actually look like."

[zooming into a astronomy image of blue shining stars with deep space background]
In recent years, scientific discovery has forced a similar crisis on the question of how stars form.

[an astronomy image of the stellar nursery in the aptly named Snake nebula]
Consider these images of the stellar nursery in the aptly named Snake nebula, where a number of stars are forming along the filament and the stars themselves break up along the cylinder.

[an infograph of the standard theory of planet forming]
This is in stark contrast to gravitational theory which predicts that a center of mass exists toward which all of the surrounding material in a nebular cloud tends to move, and to congregate to eventually form a star.

[an deep space astronomy image of the Snake nebula, which is a black cloud, like a shadow in front of background stars]
What's more, scientists studying the Snake nebula, found that the material needed to be drawn in to form massive stars, is far less than gravitational models predict.


[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "SMA Unveils How Small Cosmic Seeds Grow Into Big Stars"]
In 2014, the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics issued a press release which stated,
[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"Previous theories proposed that high- mass stars form within very massive isolated ‘cores’ weighing at least 100 times the mass of the Sun.
These new results show that that is not the case.
The data also demonstrate that massive stars aren't born alone, but in groups..."

[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"The team also was surprised to find that these two nebular patches had fragmen- ted into individual star seeds so early in the star formation process.
They detected bipolar outflows and other signs of active, ongoing star formation.

[a white text on photo background]
"The Economist Milton Friedman once said," The only relevant test of the validity of a hypothesis is comparison of prediction with experience.

[a infogram of standard star formation]
"The prediction of the standard solar nebular hypothesis is that gravitational collapse and accretion are the processes that lead to the creation of stars and planets.
And these formative processes occur over countless eons of time.

[a 3-phase infograph of very simplified z-pinch]
In contrast, the Electric Universe and plasma cosmology propose that the electromagnetic phenomenon called the Z-pinch,
[an infograph of z-pinch with realistic astronomy-like 3d visualization as background]
also known as the Bennett pinch, is a dominant organizational phenomenon in the cosmos.

[an old black and white photo of Hannes Alfvén looking directly to the camera while having a public talk]
It was the father of plasma cosmology, Hannes Alfvén, who made the outrageous prediction that stars would form by cosmic Z-pinches
[an astronomy image with arrows to Z-pinches]
along vast networks of filaments, with an electromagnetic scavenging effect in molecular clouds in each current filament.

[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
Alfvén wrote of the Bennett or Z-pinch in 1986, "That parallel currents attract each other was known already at the times of Ampere.
It's easy to understand that in a plasma, currents should have a tendency to collect to filaments.
In 1934, it was explicitly stated by Bennett that this should lead to the formation of a pinch."

[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
Alfvén continues, "The problem which led him to the discovery was that the magnetic storm producing medium (the solar wind with present terminology) was not flowing out uniformly from the Sun.
Hence, it was a problem in cosmic physics which led to the introduction of the pinch effect..."

[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"However, to most astrophysicists it is an unknown phenomenon.
Indeed, important fields of research, for example, the treatment of the state in interstellar regions, including the formation of stars are still based on a neglect of Bennett's discovery more than half a century ago...
Present-day students in astrophysics hear nothing about it."

[zooming to an astronomy image of a plasma filaments and forming stars]
More than a decade ago, Alfvén’s prediction was confirmed when the ESA's Herschel Space Observatory imaged an "incredible network of filamentary structures seen in the constellation of the Southern Cross."
A 2009 ESA report stated,
[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"That a dark, cool area such as this, would be bustling with activity was unexpected.
But the images reveal a surprising amount of turmoil: the interstellar material is condensing into continuous and interconnected filaments glowing from the light emitted by new-born stars at various stages of development."

[zooming to an astronomy image of a plasma filaments and forming stars]
The conventional explanation for these filaments was the dissipation of some "large-scale turbulence", involving exploding stars and sonic booms.

[zooming to an astronomy image of a plasma filaments and forming stars]
However, such explosions, which are not evident, would be expected to impose some radial curvature on the filaments, which we simply do not see
[zooming to a beautiful astronomy image, which has a orange glowing dust formation surrounding a plasma filament]
and the claim that the filaments are quote "glowing" from the light emitted by new-born stars, cannot be tenable because the filaments glow steadily along their length,
[very close zoom of orange turbulent dust]
demonstrating that the light is intrinsic to the filaments, as one expects if the light output is provided by electric current.

[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Do Cosmic Strings of Gas Come From Sonic Booms?"
Moreover in 2011, even finer images from Herschel provided the conclusive evidence that cosmic scale electric currents flow along the filaments.
An ESA report at the time states,
[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"The filaments are huge, stretching for tens of light-years through space and Herschel has shown that newly born stars are often found in the densest parts of them...
Such filaments in interstellar clouds have been glimpsed before by other infrared satellites, but they have never been seen clearly enough to have their widths measured.
Now, Herschel has shown that, regardless of the length or density of a filament, the width is always roughly the same."

[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
The lead author of the paper on the discovery stated, "This is a very big surprise.."

[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
The ESA report concludes, "This consistency of the widths demands an explanation."

[an astronomy image of red glowing dust around plasma filament]
Any attempt to explain the filaments constant width by explosions, is also untenable.
Explosions would cause the filaments to vary markedly in brightness and width, depending on the density of the interstellar dust and the perspective from which they are viewed.

[a photo of Wal Thornhill at nature]
However, physicists and Thunderbolts chief science adviser Wal Thornhill wrote of this discovery,
[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"The constant width over vast distances is due to the current flowing along the Birkeland filaments, each filament constituting a part of a larger electric circuit.
And in a circuit the current must be the same in the whole filament, although the current density can vary in the filament due to the electromagnetic pinch effect."

[a 3d visualization of a star and glowing dust around it]
The absence of the expected amount of dust material to form both stars and planets gravitationally, is not surprising at all, if such objects are formed by the electromagnetic Z-pinch.

[a graph of scales relating to the electromagnetic force]
As Alfvén noted, the electromagnetic force is exponentially greater than gravity and is scalable up to the cosmic magnitude.

[a astronomy photo of red glowing dust]
Wal Thornhill has proposed that planets also form electro- magnetically, often along the same current filaments on which stars form.

[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Multiple-ExoPlanet System Found with Odd Orbit"]
And the weird zoo of exoplanetary systems discovered in recent decades,
[a digital art image of a gas giant and  astar]
including the astonishing abundance of so called "hot Jupiters," or gas giants, orbiting impossibly closely to their parent stars,
[a digital art image of a sunrise at a gas giant]
has only affirmed the astounding failure of gravitational accretion theory to explain science discovery.
[a digital art image of forming planet]
Another important aspect of both star and planet formation, is the evidence for both such objects forming in pairs, the result of the electrical "doubling effect" of twin current filaments.

[an infograph of forces between Birkeland currents]
As Thornhill explained in an earlier Space News, Birkeland currents are formed by two parallel current filaments which attract each other according to Ampere’s law.

[an infograph of entangled Birkeland currents]
As they draw closer, the magnetic attraction between them is overcome by electrostatic repulsion caused by charge separation within those filaments.

[an infograph of cosmic Birkeland current filaments]
As a result, those filaments circle about each other to form a twisted pair, a configuration well known to electrical engineers.
And it is this pairing that tends to concentrate matter in toroids and closely orbiting bodies.

[a digital art image of binary stars]
In this sense, plasma science explains a mystery that remains unresolved in standard cosmology.

[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "The origin of binary stars"]
As Phys.org noted in a 2018 report,
[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"The origin of binary stars has long been one of the central problems of astronomy."

[an astronomy image of a binary star]
The report noted that protostars and young stars have been found to be more likely to form in binary pairs as they are strung at intervals
[an astronomy image of a plasma filament and it's dust and stars]
along the filament inside a molecular cloud.
The report states of this scientific discovery,
[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"About half of the binaries are in elongated core structures, and they conclude that the initial cores were also elongated structures...
One of their most significant major conclusions is that each dusty core of material is likely to be the birthplace of two stars, not the single star usually modeled."

[an artist's impression of two planets in close proximity]
And we now have evidence that a similar pairing can occur in the formation of planets.

[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Planets around other stars are like peas in a pod]
In 2018, the Keck Observatory published a report titled, "Planets around other stars are like peas in a pod."
It states,
[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
"...the team found that exoplanets tend to be the same sizes as their neighbors.
If one planet is small, the next planet around that same star is very likely to be small as well, and if one planet is big, the next is likely to be big.
They also found the planets orbiting the same star tend to have a regular orbital spacing."

[a screenshot of a scientific article called "Introduction: The Rapid Electrical Formation of Stone Spherules, the Scalability of the Results, and the Similarities of the Internal and External Structures of the Spheres with Naturally Occurring Concretions"]
We also note that in 2004, Thornhill and Dr. C.J.Ransom conducted independent plasma experiments on the rapid electrical formation of stone spherules.
[a table of results in the article]
As seen in these remarkable images, Ransom and Thornhill successfully reproduced the unique forms of virtually every type of rocky body we see today.
From the solid spheres we're familiar with representing a typical planet, to bodies with complex geological layering, to spherules with equatorial bands and equatorial bulges, to dramatic hemispheric dichotomies.
And of course, we see the fused pair in the spherules, which is a common bi-lobate form we see among comets and asteroids.

[a speculative astronomical image of entangled plasma filaments with infograph]
So, if prediction is the only meaningful test of the validity of a hypothesis, the question must be asked,
[astronomical image of glowing plasma filament and dust]
why are space scientists today still not even entertaining the concepts of the Electric Universe and plasma cosmology?

[a black and white photo of Hannes Alfvén talking publicly]
Consider institutionalized science’s response to the work of Hannes Alfvén which is described by history of science scholar Stephen G. Brush as follows.
"...the continuing resistance to Alfvén’s work is based on a widely held opinion that his predictions are not derived from a plausible physical theory, that is a theory that conforms to the dominant paradigm.
If a theory is not acceptable, it does not gain credit by making successful predictions.
This would imply that the role of prediction as a means of evaluating scientific theories, has been exaggerated."

[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "MAVEN Mars Electric Currents]
But one of the primary missions of this video series has been to document for posterity the actual predictive
[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Unexpected, mysterious x-rays found emanating from Pluto]
records of the Electric Universe and plasma cosmology.

[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Juno Finds Mysterious, Unexpected Currents Crackling Through Jupiter's Magnetosphere"]
The only position we have taken is that the astounding successes of these predictions makes them worthy of
[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Cosmic magnetic fields with astonishing order"]
sober scientific investigation at the level of institutionalized science.

[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Spooky Alignment of Quasars Across Billions of Light-years"]
Well into the 21st century, this invitation for scientific progress remains unanswered.

[astronomy images as background and credit text at front]
*Music*
