Title: Donald E. Scott: Dark Matter Debunked | Thunderbolts
Channel: ThunderboltsProject
Format: video lecture
Url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWW_mtihc1Q
Script:

[Music]
*Logo*
*Title: Thunderbirds*
*Title: Dark Matter Debunked*

[an astronomy image of a galaxy]
It's time to put to bed the fairy tale of dark matter.

[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Dark Matter Still a Mystery: Most Sensitive Search Yet Comes Up Empty"]
Something so dark, of course, it's invisible, and so mysterious, that it remains undetected after decades of searching for it with sophisticated instruments, scanning all the known
[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Shadows of two failed searches loom over physics"]
cosmos and the entire electromagnetic spectrum.
But how can something be falsified that's this imperceptible?

[an infographic about big bang and expanding universe, and neutron star]
Of course, there are many other invisible non-existent astrophysical entities, such as dark energy and
[a digital art image of neutron star]
neutron stars, that have been invented and disseminated using disingenuous methods of measurement and
[an infographic of neutron star and strange quark star]
interpretation onto a naive unsuspecting public.
But those are battles for another day.

[Image of a man's hand touching a leaf in a jungle forest]
Being a scientist is like being an explorer who's attempting to hack a pathway through a dense jungle, snarl of weeds, vines, trees and undergrowth.

[a white text on dark background, which says the quote quote of John Archibald Wheeler, "We live on an island surrounded by a sea of ignorance. As our island of knowledge grows, so does the shore of our ignorance."]
But the scientist’s jungle consists of natural ignorance and also a lack of knowledge and grown false beliefs, which may be long time officially accepted misconceptions.

[An old black and white image of two scientist with their fridge-sized metallic machines. Scientists are looking their machines curiously.]
Real scientists try to produce hypotheses, that is to say logical descriptions of real things and how they interact.

[A comic style scientist with a list of requirements for scientific hypotheses]
All scientific hypotheses of course have to be testable.
If it can't be actively tested, a hypothesis at least must pass the so-called test of time.

[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Acceleration relation found among spiral and irregular galxies challenges current understanding of dark matter"]
Incoming new data has to fit comfortably into any proposed hypothesis or model without too much tinkering with it, or massive
[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Dwarf Galaxies Dim Hopes of Dark Matter]
back-to-the-drawing board modifications, and certainly without inventing imaginary ecological, non-measurable forces
[a screenshot of a popular scientific article called "Strange Matter, the Last Piece in the Puzzle of the Cosmos"]
and non-observable entities, such as strange matter to explain the new data.

[an infographic explaining Birkeland currents with arrows and text]
In the past few years I’ve been studying Birkeland Currents.
Those are the strong, stable flows of electrically charged particles,
[Sheets of Birkeland currents on top of Earth]
that connect from one place in the cosmos to another.
What their form and structure is and how they affect objects they connect with.

[An old black and white image of Kristian Birkeland in his lab. He watches his large electric scientific device.]
Originally discovered by Kristian Birkeland early in the 1900s coming from the Sun to the earth.

[a photo of auroras]
They deliver the electric power that lights up our auroras and
[an infographic of how auroras form on Earth]
I wanted to develop an accurate, realistic model of their structure.

[Image of the host and his book: Donald E. Scott, PhD, Electrical Engineer, Author]
A complete description of what I did is thoroughly detailed in chapters 10 and 11 of my latest book “The Interconnected Cosmos,”
[the cover of the book "Interconnected Cosmos"]}[
published by Stickman on Stone, and I urge you to pick up a copy.
Anyway, here's a brief description of what I did.

[Video of going fast through galaxy, between stars and looking backwards]
My starting point was at the edge of the scientific jungle, astrophysics and cosmology, which supposedly is the scientific study of cosmic space and those things that inhabit it,
[A digital art image of unknown planets and a star]
but it really is a jungle of contradictions and warped, bizarre, impossible processes and imaginary forces.
But I had to begin somewhere.

[Screenshot of a scientific paper "Birkeland Currents: A Force-Free Field-Aligned Model"]
At that time I had completed the derivation and interpretation of a mathematical model that had been started by
[a screenshot of a scientific article called "Biographical memoir: Stig Olov Lundquist"]
Stig Lundquist in 1950.
He had determined two equations
[A close screenshot of a important chapter of the scientific paper "Birkeland Currents: A Force-Free Field-Aligned Model"]
that describe the basic shape of the magnetic field that is inside a Birkeland Current, but that's where he stopped.

[Even closer screenshot of math equations]
I completed his model to include five major equations and also interpreted what they implied about the physical shape of the Birkeland Currents
[another math equation]
and their behavior and that was not explained fully by Lundquist.

[Informative schematic-styled 3D animation of cross section of Birkeland current]
My model predicted that Birkeland Currents uniquely produce coaxial counter-rotational motion of their internal plasma and are able to carry electric current in both directions at the same time.
Let me emphasize, this is a unique behavior.
A coaxial cable here on Earth cannot simultaneously carry current in both directions.

[Informative 2D image of cross-section of counter rotating circles]
As far as we know, true coaxial counter rotation is created in nature only by field aligned, that is to say, Birkeland Currents.

[Image of two tornadoes near each other]
For example a pair of tornadoes, located near each other, rotating in opposite directions, is not an example of coaxial counter-rotation simply because they're not coaxial, they're not inside one another.

[video clips of coaxial counter-rotating cloud bands on both Jupiter]
So when NASA recorded those coaxial counter-rotating cloud bands on both Jupiter and
[video clips of coaxial counter-rotating cloud bands on both Saturn]
Saturn, my model had passed its first test.

[Image of the host author]
That was the extent of my first foray into this cosmological jungle and at that point I figured we’d pitch camp for a rest.

[Screenshot of a scientific article: "Stellar counter-rotation in lenticular galaxy NGC 448", and graphs in it]
But then the announcement of the discovery of counter-rotating stars in the faces of several spiral galaxies, was even stronger evidence that was headed in the right direction.

[Visualization of stars in galaxy and lines between stars]
In 2014 it was reported that a vast network of plasma filaments, Birkeland Currents really, had been discovered that connect many, if not all, the galaxies in the
[Image of a cosmic web, a 3D cube-sized section of universe, which contains galaxies and electric filaments between them]
Universe in what has been called the Intergalactic Web, abbreviation IGW.

[Screenshot of a popular scientific article "Light from Ancient Quasar Reveleas Intergalatic Web" in the Scientific American magazine]
The discovery was quickly confirmed and a rush of scientific papers followed.
All this strongly suggested that Birkeland Currents not only connect objects within our solar system,
[3D cad-like image of few dozen galaxies]
but there are much larger and stronger Birkeland Currents arching across the vast distances between galaxies.

[A digital art image of galaxies and purple space dust]
I assume that those galaxies within the Intergalactic Web must be sending and receiving electric currents via the plasma filaments to which they are connected.

[A digital art image of galaxies and plasma filaments between them]
Also, I thought if galaxies actually form on those Birkeland Current filaments in the web, they probably inherit their rotational profiles from those filaments.

[A digital art image of yellow galaxies and blue plasma filaments between them]
If that happens, then the stellar velocity profiles ought to be the same as the velocity profiles of the Birkeland Currents on which they form.

[An image of a galaxy with a rotational velocity graph drawn on top of it showing that the velocity is the most high in the middle radius, which is wrong settled science]
Remember that the typical stellar velocity profile in a galaxy, a plot of the star's velocity as a function of its radius r, how far out it is from the galaxy's center, has been totally baffling to astrophysicists.

[Screenshot of a 2D graph showing velocity shift]
Actually they typically look like a plot of the function the square root of r.
This shape cannot be explained by Newtonian physics and almost all astrophysicists deny that electrical effects could possibly produce any of what we see in the cosmos.

[A black and white image of Vera Rubin using her microscope]
So, that's why astronomers like Vera Rubin and her colleagues postulated the existence of dark missing matter in the 1940s.

[Another image of a galaxy with a rotational velocity graph drawn on top of it. This time it shows both measured and calculated]
Their repeated unsuccessful attempts to explain this rotation of those stars is what set astronomers off on their decades-old quest to find dark matter.

[A video clip of the host talking at Electric Universe 2015 conference]
So, I wondered if the plot of the rotation speed of the plasma in my model Birkeland Current, might be similar to the ones that baffled those astronomers.
I set out to determine what that velocity profile might be.

[Informative schematic-styled 3D animation of cross section of Birkeland current]
My model yields information about the magnetic field strength and the current density in a Birkeland Current, but it doesn't directly yield any information about the velocity of the charges that make up those currents.

[White text against black background which says same what is in the script]
The key to determining the velocity of the stream of charged particles in a Birkeland Current was the realization that the current density in any plasma has two components, the charge density and the velocity of those charges.
The charge density is how much charge you have per cubic meter and the velocity of course is how many meters per second does that box of charges travel with.

[White text against black background which continues explaining the math]
Therefore, if we know any two of these three quantities j, rho and v, we can find the third one.

[Another image of a galaxy with a rotational velocity graph drawn on top of it. This time it shows both observed and expected]
We obviously know from historical astronomical observations what the typical velocity profile of stars within the galaxy looks like, and it's approximately the square root of r.

[White text against black background which has all math in it at once]
And we know from the equations of my model that the current density j, varies with radial distance r, out from the BC's, that is the Birkeland Current's central axis, as one over the square root of r.
So, I was able to solve for the third quantity, not very hard, the charge density rho that must exist inside my model BC,
[Black graph over black background, which was seen previously]
using all this data, the data from galaxy NGC1620, it turns out to be a simple inverse relationship, one over r.

[Screenshot of a 2d graph with Colombs per unit volume y-axis and radial distance x-axis]
This clearly demonstrates that an electrical process exists, that can produce the heretofore inexplicable stellar velocities,
[Another image of a galaxy with a rotational velocity graph drawn on top of it. This time it separates datapoints from starlight and from 21cm hydrogen]
that prompted astronomers to search for dark matter in the first place.

[Blue-yellow image of a galaxy]
In other words, the refusal to accept the existence and effects of electrical charges in space, is what began, and maintains to this day, the dark matter wild goose chase.

[Screenshot of a 2d graph with Colombs per unit volume y-axis and radial distance x-axis]
But is there any evidence that this particular distribution, this one over r shape, is the way charge really is distributed inside an actual BC?

[Image of the host author]
I took a short side trip off the logical journey we had been on, to find that out.
Did the velocity profiles of other galaxies also require this same charge density in the BC’s they connected with?
That was the question.

[a 2D graph with rotational speed (km/s) as y-axis and distance from galactic center (kpc) as x-axis]
Other galaxies may have slightly different velocity profiles.
Using any of those other velocity profiles with the same expression for current density from my model, yielded slightly different charge density curves.
But the main point is that there is always some charge density curve,
[a 2d graph of comparison of predicted and actual stellar velocity profiles]
that will exactly reproduce any arbitrary velocity profile.
So, I repeat myself.
We have now shown, and as I said recently, presented in
[The book cover of host's book "the interconnected cosmos"]
a greater detail in my new book, that a purely electrical process does indeed exist, that can produce
[An image of a galaxy with a rotational velocity graph drawn on top of it]
a hitherto inexplicable stellar velocity distributions that prompted astronomers to search for dark matter.
And that's the end of the story.

[a 2d graph of comparison of predicted and actual stellar velocity profiles]
The charge densities may be slightly different from that one over r-shaped distribution in different galaxies, but the BC curve, that Birkeland Current velocity curve will always match the actual one.

[An image of 2d cross-section of counter rotating circles]
By the way, we know that BCs often show coaxial counter-rotation.

[A screenshoft of a website in wikipedia called "Counterrotation in Galaxies"]
So, when we observe coaxial rotation of the stars in a galaxy that is connected to a BC,
[Two 2d graphs from the astrophysical journal, 769:105, 2013 June 1]
that's additional evidence that we're correct that it is the Birkeland Current that's producing the velocity of those stars in those galaxies.
The twisting motions of the galaxy's Birkeland current are what produces the velocities of those stars.

[a 2d graph with coulombs per unit volume as y-axis and radial distance as x-axis]
If we assume that the charge density distribution that exists within a typical Birkeland Current filament is, as a function of radial distance r, the distance out from the Z-axis of the Birkeland Current, is proportional to one over r, as it is for the one particular galaxy I show there, NGC1620, we can solve mathematically for the electric field that particular charge density plot creates.
In other words, we know what the charges are, where they are, we can solve for the electrical field that results.
In turn, knowing the properties of that electric field, allows us to find
[Informative schematic-styled 3D animation of cross section of Birkeland current]
the voltage that will occur at every point within the Birkeland Current's cross-section as a function of the radius value of that point.
It turns out that under this assumption about the charge density, that the maximum voltage occurs exactly at the center of the Birkeland Current, that r equals 0, the central Z-axis.
Out from there, the points of increasing radius, the voltage plot is a simple linearly decreasing function of r.

[a 2d graph with Volts as y-axis and Radius value as x-axis]
This voltage distribution is exactly what's needed to produce Marklund convection.

[a dark informative 2d visualization of Marklund Convection]
Okay, but so what?
What's Marklund convection?
Well, in Marklund convection, it's a process that occurs in a Birkeland Current.

[a simplified 2d informative cross-section of various elements and their electron voltages]
Atoms of the various elements present are sorted according to their so-called ionization potential.
This results in the easily ionized, that is to say the heavier atomic weight elements such as iron,
[a simplified 2d informative cross-section of iron with 8eV]
being found at the center of the filament,
[a simplified 2d informative cross-section of hydrogen with 11eV and helium with 13eV]
and the lighter elements such as hydrogen and helium, being found in its outer regions.

[a 2d graph with Volts as y-axis and Radius value as x-axis]
This process works, because positive ions accelerate down the voltage drop, that starts at the center of the Birkeland current, and ends at its outer edge.
They go faster and faster,
[a digital art image of space, where plasma filament strikes a planet causing explosion]
until they collide out at the edge of the Birkeland Current with any matter, atoms, ions, dust, any other stuff, and this releases heat.
Those collisions release heat.

[a simplified 2d informative cross-section of helium with 13eV, as the outermost circle]
The temperature is hottest at the collision site, just at the Birkeland Current's edge.
And that's why the elements that are the most difficult from which to strip off an electron, such as hydrogen and helium, are found out there.

[a simplified 2d informative cross-section of various elements and their electron voltages]
So the center of the Birkeland Current is its coolest region and contains the heavy elements such as iron, and its outer edge is the hottest region containing elements such as hydrogen.

[a video clip of the Sun in close proximity]
This is intriguingly the same sorting arrangement found in stars including our Sun,
[a informative image of Z-pinches forming in plasma filaments]
which are formed in Z-pinches in Birkeland Currents.
Our Sun has a heavy concentration of hydrogen at its outer surface.

[a video clip of the Sun in very close proximity]
Therefore, if the Sun was created at the center of a pinch, such as a Birkeland Current, then its center ought to be relatively cool and its outer surface, the photosphere should be quite hot and it is.
We know that
[a video clip of a Sunspot in the Sun in very close proximity]
the dark center of a Sunspot, the umbra, is much cooler than the surrounding photosphere and it's a window into the inside of the Sun.

[a 2d graph with Volts as y-axis and Radius value as x-axis]
But the question still remained.
Was my assumption that the distribution of electric charges, the charge density rho, one over r, correct? Does it really occur?

[a video clip of professor Michael Merrifield talking at his office]
The answer came when a noted astronomer, professor Michael Merrifield of the University of Nottingham, reported that the outer rim of a galaxy,
[a astronomy image of two galaxies, which looks like two blurry yellow lights]
this one was NGC4550, mysteriously had a collection of counter-rotating, hydrogen-rich stars at its periphery, at the edge of it.

[a screenshoft of scientific article "Disentangling the stellar populations in the counter-rotating disc galaxy NGC 4550", where Merrifield is a co-author]
He complained that there was no known way for this to ever occur.
His announcement unintentionally provided supporting evidence that I considered strong evidence, for my claim that a Birkeland Current had been, or was connected to this galaxy.

[a astronomy image of a white galaxy]
This might easily have been the cause, not only of the hydrogen-rich collection of stars along its edge, but also why that band was counter-rotating with respect to the other stars in NGC4550.

[a 3d visualization video of a galaxy and stars]
I assert that my assumption was thus shown to be valid, at least in this particular case.
And once again, we see that an electrical process is the explanation that eludes all these expert astrophysicists that still say
[a 3d visualization video of a rotationg galaxy]
yes, yes, we know electricity exists in the cosmos but it doesn't do anything.

[a infographic of the solar system and it's outer edge]
Well, the Sun's heliosphere is a node, a pinch in a Birkeland Current.
According to our model, the only place in a Birkeland Current that involves energy loss, would be the outer edge of the Birkeland Current,
[a 3d visualization video of charged ion travelling between particles]
where positive ions falling radially down that linearly decreasing voltage profile, recombine with electrons just outside.
This recombination process will emit a low level of visible light.
It releases energy in the form of light.

[a screenshoft of wikipedia page of energetic neutral atom or ENAs]
The newly formed energetic neutral atoms called ENAs, energetic neutral atoms,
[a graph from the wikipedia page]
then diffuse back into the Birkeland Current.
Being neutral, they're unaffected by any of the electromagnetic effects there.

[a 3d visualization image from the IBEX mission in the website with a title "Mysteries abound"]
This visible light was discovered by the NASA Lockheed Martin IBEX mission.
The announcement said in part,
[a white text on black background, which says the quote what the narrator is saying]
IBEX's all-sky map of energetic neutral atom emission reveals a bright ring of ENAs that encircles the entire heliosphere.
David J. McComas, IBEX principal investigator and assistant vice president of the Space Science and Engineering division at Southwest Research Institute, said quote, ”The IBEX results are truly remarkable, with a narrow ribbon of bright details. This is a shocking new result", he said.
"We had no idea this ribbon existed, or what has created it. Our previous ideas about the outer heliosphere are going to have to be revised.”

[Image of the host and his book: Donald E. Scott, PhD, Electrical Engineer, Author]
But if history is any guide, it will not be revised.
NASA and the astrophysics power structure never admit they were wrong about anything.
We'll see what they do in this case.

[an infographic of the Sun's environment explaining about Z-pinch filament, interstellar magnetic field, central-zpinch current clumn, double layer, heliosphere and disk of charged particles from the Sun]
In any event the Marklund convection process may well be occurring all along the vast length of the Birkeland Current that extends on either side of our Sun's heliosphere.
And that Birkeland Current is not visible from Earth, probably because it's an aging normal Birkeland Current that has a weaker charge density along its length than will be found at the Z-pinch, the heliopause, the heliosphere.
The current density will be weaker,
[a white text on black background, which explains plasma operation modes]
the plasma will therefore be in dark mode quite likely, and I think it is, from observation,
[a visualization of the data created by the IBEX mission]
and any light generated by recombination along its periphery will be even weaker than that observed by the IBEX mission.

[a 3d visualization video of charged ion travelling between particles]
But the Marklund convection process, in which the positive ions inside a Birkeland Current are accelerated outward, directed by an E-field from a high-voltage central axis,
[infographic of the Sun, direction of a Solar System motion, direction of ENA flow and ribbon observed by the IBEX satellite]
is exactly the same process, that we now know occurs just above the edge of the Sun's heliosphere, when the solar wind positive ions coming from the Sun recombine with incoming electrons to produce the light seen by IBEX.

[a infographic of temperatures at the layers of the Sun]
It's also similar to what happens just above the Sun's photosphere, where accelerating positive ions, escaping from inside the Sun, collide with other matter, which creates the high temperatures of the Sun's coronal temperature anomaly.

[a video clip of the Sun at close proximity]
It's the same process, just with higher current density at the pinch than along the BC's length, and highest of all just above the Sun's photosphere.

[a 3D visualization of points and lines with a title "Colorful new galactic map shows strange strings of stars"]
So, the evidence strongly indicates that stars are connected to their planets and to other stars.

[an astronomy image of stars or galaxies joined by plasma filaments]
All galaxies are connected.
The more we look carefully, the entire Universe is interconnected by plasma Birkeland Current filaments.

[a visualization of galaxies joined by plasma filaments]
And the electrical interactions at all locations are fairly similar, just with differing strengths and sizes.
The process seems to be scalable.

[a 3d visualization video of the big bang]
I have long wondered why cosmologists, who claim the Universe is created by a Big Bang explosion, never try to explain where all the rotation comes from.

[a 3d visualization video of a strongly rotating galaxy]
Just about everything we see in the cosmos rotates, or twists, or spins.
Why?

[a screenshot of a popular science article at space.com website with the title "Enormous strands of galaxies in the cosmic web appear to be spinning"]
How did it get that way from a Big Bang explosion?
[Informative schematic-styled 3D animation of cross section of Birkeland current]
Birkeland Currents rotate and they counter-rotate.
Is that the source of all the rotation?
I claim yes, it is.
At least until I hear of another natural process that can cause the rotation and
[a screenshot of a scientific article called "A massive counter-rotating gas disk in a spiral galaxy"]
coaxial counter-rotation we see everywhere we look in the sky.

[a screenshot of a popular science article at website with the title "Latest dark matter searches leave scientists empty-handed"]
We all have to realize that no one can ever disprove the existence of something that doesn't exist.

[a screenshot of a popular science article at website with the title "Shadows of two failed searches loom over physics"]
In order to maintain or renew the sources of their grant funding, astrophysicists who now refuse to put
[a screenshot of a popular science article at website with the title "World's most sensitive dark-matter search comes up empty handed"]
an end to their fruitless and wildly expensive dark matter quest, are challenging us to do just that.

[a digital art image of a spiral galaxy and blue points of lights]
In maintaining their assertion that dark matter still exists, they're saying something like,
[a simply photoshopped image of a table, a chair, a lamp and a dog under the table]
”There's a big vicious dog under this table. He's invisible, untouchable, unsmellable and makes no sounds,
[bitten homework paper on top of a wooden table]
but he ate my homework last night. Prove to me he doesn't exist.”

[Image of the host and his book: Donald E. Scott, PhD, Electrical Engineer, Author]
Now, this is a dishonest, illogical unreasonable, childish challenge.
Anyone seriously making such a demand is a shyster,
[a beautiful 3d visualization image of a galaxy]
a snake oil salesman who is intentionally trying to swindle his audience, or perhaps he's an intellectually lazy astrophysicist fearing misinformation.
Either way, the evidence is indisputable.

[a screenshot of a scientific article called "Birkeland Currents and Dark Matter"]
The theory and most importantly, the rationale for the existence of dark matter has now been systematically debunked.

[an astronomy image of stars and galaxies]
An accurate understanding of the cosmos is impossible in the conventional science of astrophysics, simply because they refuse to expand their toolset.

[a 3d visualization of Earth and how it's gravity warps the 3d grid structure]
Limited to the force of gravity in either its Newtonian or Einsteinian format, gravity only attracts.

[a childish infographics of magnetic force with hands and metal magnets showing magnetic attraction and repelling]
Magnetic forces can attract, but they can also repel.

[a simple infographic of how identical charges repel and opposite charges attract each other]
Electrical forces can also attract and they can repel.

[a screenshot of a wikipedia article of Lorentz force]
And then there's the Lorentz force that exists between electrical charges moving through a magnetic field.

[an astronomy image of stars and galaxies]
Including all of these essential forces of nature when cracking the secrets of the Universe, then the concept and necessity of dark matter is outright ridiculous.

[a 3d visualization video of travelling through stars and galaxies]
Another key difference between the Standard Model and the Electric Universe model of cosmology.

[Music]
*Credits*
