Url: https://www.universeofparticles.com/mass-condensation/
Format: e-book
Text (multiline):

Mass Condensation

Having established that the basic premise in Halton Arp’s hypothesis is correct, we can take a look at what might cause matter to become more massive over time.

Halton Arp suggested that radiation in the form of high energy photons condense onto matter, thereby increasing the mass of matter over time while simultaneously cooling down the environment.

[Small atoms + high energy photons = bigger atoms, img51]

Sticking with Morton Spears’ particle quanta as our only building blocks, we see that the increased mass must be due to growing protons, because electrons are as small as they can get.

The electron consist of only 3 charged quanta, which corresponds to the negative orb of a photon.

The proton, on the other hand, consists of 2177 charged quanta. It consists of hundreds of photons.

It seems therefore plausible that the proton may have started out much smaller, and that it has grown to its current size over time.

The mechanism for this would be one in which protons sometimes consume gamma-ray photons as follows:

 1. A gamma-ray photon crashes into a proton.
 2. The photon breaks into an electron and a positron.
 3. The proton consumes both the electron and the positron.

If this is how things work, then we can assume that the number 2177 for the current size of protons is an average. Some protons may be slightly larger, and others slightly smaller.

Protons grow over time. Inertia and gravity become stronger as a consequence.

Going back in time by studying the fossil records, we might find evidence of an environment in which gravity and inertia was less. As it happens, that’s exactly what we find.




Darwin’s Law

In his work on the origin of species, Charles Darwin postulated that no species will ever develop a shape or size that is grossly out of tune with its environment. Rather, the opposite will tend to happen. Animals of different species will develop similar shapes and sizes given similar environments.

This law of nature is easy to confirm. There’s no lack of examples:

The shrew looks like a mouse. The armadillo and the pangolin are similar to each other. The muskrat, beaver and coypu are also very similar. Yet, none of these animals are closely related. What they have in common is their environment and feeding habits.

These animals are similar in size and shape due to their similar environments.

What then are we to make of fossils in which we find a recognizable shape that is many times bigger than the same shape today?

[Meganeura, lifesize model (from Land of the dead blog), img52]

The Meganeura was a dragonfly with a wingspan of 65 cm. It looked exactly like dragonflies look today, so its feeding habits must have been the same.

If inertia was as strong back in the time of the Meganuera as it is today, it would have constantly crashed into things. The sort of quick manoeuvring that we see in dragonflies would have been impossible for a dragonfly the size of the Meganeura.

Moreover, today’s gravity would have made it impossible for the Meganeura to get off the ground. Its wafer thin wings would have broken if it tried.

The only way to explain the Meganeura is that it must have lived in an environment where both inertia and gravity were less strong.




Impossible Dinosaurs

Darwin’s law is routinely ignored by those trying to make sense of the fossil records.

For example, the shape of the Tyranosaurus Rex tells us that it was a speed monster. Its enormous hind legs allowed it to run and jump. Most likely, it could turn on a dime by tossing its tail to the side if its pray tried to get away.

[Tyranosaurus, by Marcin Polak from Warszawa / Warsaw, Polska / Poland Tyranozaur Rex Uploaded by FunkMonk, CC BY 2.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=31365817, img53]

Yet the official story is that it could hardly move.

This completely ignores Darwin’s law. The shape of an animal never deviates grossly from its function. An animal with the shape of a speed monster cannot have lived a sloth-like existence.

The Brontosaurus, with its long swan-like neck is another example. The official story is that it carried its head straight out in front of it, and its tail was carried equally straight out behind it. It was a giant walking stick.

[Brontosaurus: by MCDinosaurhunter Own work, CC BY-SA 3.0 https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=33465760, img53]

Using Darwin’s law we would have expected the Brontosaurus to use its long neck to reach high up into trees. Its tail would be flexible and strong, allowing it to lean back on it as it stretched towards the highest branches.

However, with today’s inertia and gravity, the Brontosaurus would have been unable to control its body in such a graceful way. The torque on its neck would have been enormous, and all blood would have drained from its head.

Even with its neck straight like a spear, problems remain. The fact that the Tyrannosaurus Rex could hardly move tells us that the Brontosaurus would have been incapable of any motion at all. The Brontosaurus was much bigger than the Tyrannosaurus. Its legs would have been crush by its own weight.

The Brontosaurus would have been an impossibility with today’s inertia and gravity.






The Quetzalcoatlus

Even more impossible than the Brontosaurus is the Quetzalcoatlus. It was a dinosaur the size of a giraffe. Its neck was equally long as that of a giraffe, and it walked about on four legs.

[Quetzalcoatlus (c) M. Witton via G. Trivedi, img54]

Yet it could fly! When spreading out its front legs and fifth finger, it unfolded wings with a span of 16 meters.

The fact that an animal like that could fly is in itself baffling. However, that’s not its only mystery. Its head, including its beak, was half the length of its giraffe-like neck. Instead of a tiny head perched on top of its long neck, like that of a giraffe, it had an enormous head with a giant beak.

Making this all the more mysterious is the fact that these flying monsters were predators. They could catch prey with the tip of their beaks. That would produce a tremendous torque on their necks. An abrupt force to their beaks would have been enough to snap their necks.

Yet, they could hunt and catch prey with ease. They must have been able to move their heads about swiftly and forcefully.

The only way this could be possible is if the inertia associated with their heads was less. With less inertia, there would be less torque. Only a world where everything was substantially less massive could have allowed an animal like the Quetzalcoatlus to exist.

The Quetzalcoatlus is pretty much definite proof that both inertia and gravity have increased over time, exactly as hypothesised by Halton Arp.
