Url: https://www.universeofparticles.com/hollow-planets/
Format: e-book
Text (multiline):

Hollow Planets

We know from measuring the electric gradient of our atmosphere that our planet is negatively charged relative to the ionosphere. The potential difference is about 300,000 volt.

It’s the potential difference between the ionosphere and the surface of our planet that keeps our atmosphere from escaping into space. The much weaker gravitational force isn’t able to do this on its own.

The negative charge on the surface of our planet is most likely matched with a corresponding positive charge at its centre. This would mean that there’s a repelling electrical force inside Earth.

Since gravity is measured from the centre of astronomic bodies, and not from their surfaces, as is the case with the electrostatic force, there can be no net gravity at the centre of planets, moons and stars.

This means that there’s nothing to prevent astronomic bodies from being hollow. There’s no force at the centre of such bodies to counter the effect of internal electrical repulsion. Nor is there anything to counter centrifugal forces due to spin.

If a cavity was to develop inside an astronomic body, there would be no way to make it disappear.

[Cross section of a hollow planet with repelling electric force at its core, img61]

This was first recognized by Isaac Newton in his mathematical work on gravity. In his shell theorem he demonstrated that there’s nothing to stop astronomic bodies from developing empty cavities. When the astronomer Edmond Halley suggested to Newton that our planet may be hollow, Newton didn’t object. There was nothing in Newton’s theory to counter Edmond Halley’s suggestion.

Now that we know that there most likely is a strong repelling force inside all astronomic bodies, there is even less reason to object to such a notion.

The enormous pressure that undoubtedly exists at the core of all astronomic bodies is no argument for a solid core. The pressure inside the walls of a tunnel doesn’t make tunnels collapse. The same is true for any cavity inside our planet.

Seismic evidence for a solid core is often used as an argument. However, reconciling seismic data with a solid core is difficult. Using a hollow Earth model is easier. Jan Lamprecht demonstrated this in his work on the subject.

Even NASA appears to accept the possibility of hollow planets. According to their own measurements, Jupiter’s core is less dense than its outer layers.

The only serious objection to a hollow Earth model is the fact that gravity at the surface of our planet indicates that it must be made up of something extremely dense. The latest suggestion is a super-dense crystal at Earth’s core. This material, which only exists in theory, and no-one has ever been able to produce in a laboratory, has all sorts of fantastic properties. This is all required in order to reconcile observed seismic and gravitational data with current theory.

However, there’s a simple way around this. By recognizing that our planet is a gigantic charged capacitor, we can make the suggestion that the dielectric material inside capacitors will add to the gravitational force when sufficiently charged.





Gravity and Capacitance

If the gravitational force is communicated by neutrinos in the manner suggested in this book, then this force is dependent on four factors:

1. The distance between two objects
2. The total number of charged quanta involved (mass)
3. The availability of neutrinos (gravitational constant)
4. The magnitude of footprints communicated by zero-point neutrinos

The first three factors are all included in Newton’s universal law of gravity. What is not included is the possibility that charged matter may be different than neutral matter in respect to the gravitational force.

This relates to point 4. The magnitude of footprints communicated by neutrinos may be dependent on the electrical environment in which the footprints are made.

Since our planet has a charged surface, it’s by definition a capacitor. Most likely, our planet is fully charged, which would make the total charge carried by our planet enormous.

This charge exerts stress on the crust of our planet. Positive quanta are pulled towards the negative surface. Negative quanta are pulled towards the positive surface.

Since both protons and electrons are dielectric, an internal stress develops. The negative hoops and the positive hooks of these particles get pulled further out than normal.

[Uncharged and charged capacitor, img62]

When neutrinos hit these stressed particles, they get in-printed with more pronounced footprints. This translates into more forceful collisions between neutrinos in the surrounding space, and therefore stronger gravity.





Expanding Planets

Assuming that an increase in radioactivity is a side-effect of mass condensation, and that mass condensation is real and ongoing, large astronomic bodies like planets and stars will experience an increase in internal pressures over time.

This is because radioactivity results in an increase in the number of atoms in a given space. Where there was once only one atom, there are suddenly two. With more atoms occupying the same space, pressure builds up.

Some planet may stay unchanged in size for ever. However, others will eventually crack and expand due to internal pressures.

From evidence available to us, it appears that Earth stayed pretty much unchanged in size up until about 300 million years ago. Our planet had at that time a diameter roughly half of what it has today.

However, ever since then, our planet has expanded.

This is based on the fact that continental crusts are about 4000 million years old, while no ocean floor is older than 300 million years.

Also, if we cut away all the oceans on our planet, the continents fit perfectly together onto a sphere half the diameter of present day Earth.

[South pole view of the expanding Earth, img63]

Oceans are rifts produced by the expansion of our planet, while continents are the original crust.




Gravity Anomalies

The gravitational force isn’t equally distributed across our planet. Some places have more gravity than others. This is true, even when measurements are adjusted for height above sea level and the centrifugal force of our spinning planet.

These gravity anomalies aren’t randomly distributed. They coincide with geological activity. Places with a lot of geological activity have stronger gravity than areas that have little geological activity.

It doesn’t matter if the geological activity is due to uplifting or  rifting.

Iceland, situated on the mid-Atlantic rift, has stronger than average gravity. The same is true for the Himalayas and Andes where there has been a lot of uplifting.

North-east Canada and Tibet have little geological activity, and both have relatively weak gravity.

Conventional theory holds that mass alone is the source of the gravitational force. The anomalies are therefore explained by a greater abundance of dense matter in the geological active zones. Dense matter floats up through less dense matter in both regions of rifting and uplifting.

However, this theory violates the law of buoyancy. Dense matter sinks. It never floats up. Uplifting should therefore result in less gravity, and the same should be true for rifting. In both cases, light matter should bubble up towards the surface.

But if gravity is due to capacitance as well as matter, the mystery of gravity anomalies solves itself. Especially if our planet is hollow.

All else being equal, the capacitance of a thin capacitor is greater than the capacitance of a thick capacitor. An expanding hollow planet would therefore be increasing its capacitance, and this would be especially noticeable in areas where the capacitor is cracking.

Surface gravity will increase with expansion. The reduction in overall density due to a thinner crust will be made up for by greater capacitance.

An expanding planet will display two types of cracks. There will be rifts where the old crust is pulled apart, and there will be mountains where the old crust breaks in order to fit onto the larger sphere. In both cases, we end up with a thinner crust along the cracks than in areas where there is no cracking. The geologically active areas will have more capacitance, and therefore more gravity than the geologically inactive areas.

[Geologically inactive Tibet and north-east Canada have thick crusts, img64]

[Rift zones like Iceland have thin crusts, img65]

[Uplifting cracks like the Himalayas and Andes have thin crusts, img66]

Gravity anomalies can be seen as supporting evidence for the position that gravity is related to capacitance, and that our planet is a charged body that is both hollow and expanding.





Origin of Water in the Oceans

If ocean floors are newly formed due to expansion, then we need to explain how these enormous rifts have been filled so perfectly with salt water. The amount of water is neither more nor less than what has been required to fill the rifts.

[Ocean-centric view of Earth By Serg!o - File:Oceans.png, Public Domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=11691840, img67]

The only way this could happen, short of a miraculous coincidence, is that the water has come from inside our planet. If it came from any other place, the coordination between expansion and water supply would be impossible. There’s no way the heavens could be coordinated in such a way that they supply water at the exact rate of planetary expansion.

Furthermore, comet tails have water rich in deuterium. They are therefore not the source of water on Earth.

The abundance of salt in our oceans is further evidence that the water came from within our planet because Earth has huge salt domes hidden inside its crust.

If the expansion of our planet is due to radiation, as suggested in this book, then water may even be synthesized inside our planet as part of the expansion process. Heavy elements split off hydrogen and oxygen atoms as they decay through radiation. The result is water.

From observing rifts and volcanoes, water vapour appears to be an abundant component of their venting. All evidence point to Earth as the source of water in the oceans.
