Url: https://www.universeofparticles.com/valles-marineris/
Format: e-book
Text (multiline):

Valles Marineris

Mars has a scar. It’s called Valles Marineris.

[Mars with Valles Marineris clearly visible By NASA / USGS (see PIA04304 catalog page) - http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/photo_gallery/photogallery-mars.html http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/image/planetary/mars/marsglobe1.jpg, Public Domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=19400, img75]

This scar is either a rift due to planetary expansion or the result of a prolonged electrical discharge between itself and another planet. Which one it is can be determined by taking note of certain tell tale features.

The edges of the scar have the characteristic zigzag pattern that electricity produces.

The scar is widest in the middle by quite a lot. This is also where a number of smaller scars are formed, indicating a widening out of the current flow at the moment the two planets were the closest together.

The scar is wide all the way. It doesn’t taper into a fine line, which we would expect from planetary expansion.

To the left in the picture, we can see a round pattern. The discharge has been lingering at this point as the two planets moved away from each other. This is what discharges do. Once an arc has been established, the connection isn’t immediately broken by pulling away. It sticks.

Valles Marineris can therefore be taken as evidence of a rogue planet that once roamed our solar system. This rogue planet may have been Mars itself. It may also have been some other planet, possibly one that was successfully ejected by Mars.

It appears that a great battle took place in the heavens in some distant past. It may not be entirely coincidental that Mars is known as the god of war.




Grand Canyon

Here on Earth we have the Grand Canyon, our own mini-version of Valles Marineris. Seen from space, it looks like an electrical scar.

[Satellite picture of Grand Canyon By Erthygy - Own work, CC BY-SA 4.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=66479110, img76]

The official explanation is that it has been carved out by water trickling through it over millions of years. However, it doesn’t look like any ordinary valley. Rivers don’t carve out electric scar shaped valleys.

If we stick with our hypothesis that there has been a rogue planet in our solar system, it seems more likely that the Grand Canyon is the product of a close encounter with this planet. The same planet that caused enormous damage to Mars came dangerously close to Earth as well.

If the Grand Canyon was created through discharge between Earth and a rogue planet, the entire canyon may have been carved out in less than an hour.

Such an enormous event is hard to comprehend. It’s hard to even begin to imagine the power required to perform such an act of destruction in such a short time. However, we are not talking about a meteorite or a comet. We are talking about an object the size of a planet.

For perspective, we can look up industrial capacitors on YouTube to see what sort of damage such devices can do. A capacitor the size of a beer keg can vaporize coins and pebbles. It can blow watermelons to bits. All sorts of fun can be had.

A capacitor the size of a planet can do some serious damage to other planets. If the rogue planet was sufficiently large and charged, it could even have blown up a planet or two on its way through the solar system.





Exploding Planets

Capacitors are known to explode when charged too much. This means that if a highly charged planet comes in contact with a smaller planet, the bigger planet may cause the smaller one to explode.

[Rogue planet blowing up a smaller planet, img77]

The effect would be like connecting a fully charged industrial capacitor to a much smaller capacitor.

Again, we are struck by the enormity of such an event. It seems impossible. However, the laws of electricity scale perfectly. What is true for capacitors in laboratories on Earth is also true for planet size capacitors in space. Charged too much, they explode.

Not only is such an event a theoretical possibility. There’s evidence to suggest that it has happened in our solar system, quite possibly due to the same rogue planet that scarred Mars and zapped the Grand Canyon into the crust of our planet.





Ceres, Phaeton and the Asteroid Belt

Between Jupiter and Mars, lies the asteroid belt. It’s a large collection of rocks of various sizes that orbits the Sun together with the dwarf planet Ceres.

[Ceres By Justin Cowart - Ceres - RC3 - Haulani Crater, CC BY 2.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=49700320, img78]

Ceres isn’t much of a planet. It’s a good deal smaller than our moon.

Current theory holds that the asteroid belt is left over rubble from the creation of our solar system. Too much gravity from Jupiter prevented the successful creation of a proper planet, so all we got was Ceres and a bunch of unused building material.

However, there is an older theory that tells quite another story. This theory harks back to the ancient Greeks, and was the accepted theory until the 20th century. In this theory, a planet called Phaeton was destroyed in a squabble with Jupiter.

The discoveries of Ceres and the asteroid belt by 19th century astronomers were taken as proof that Phaeton had indeed existed. Ceres was either a large part of Phaeton or it was its moon.

This older theory fits well with the hypothetical rogue planet. On its way towards the inner solar system, it blew up Phaeton, scared Mars, and zapped Earth.
A trail of destruction leads us to Jupiter. The closer we get to the gas giant, the more monumental is the destruction observed.




Jupiter’s Children

There’s a lot of energy associated with Jupiter. Everything about it is colossal. It rotates faster than any other planet. There are strong winds and enormous storms. Its famous red spot is a storm the size of a planet that has raged for centuries. The whole planet is under intense stress, and the way it alleviates this is by spinning fast and generating storms. However, this may not always be enough. If Jupiter comes under sufficient stress it may have to find a third way to rid itself of surplus energy.

An effective way to do so would be to shed some of its atmosphere. As we’ve seen, meteorites explode when under electrical stress. Comets shed matter by growing a tail. This is how electrical stress is alleviated. Matter is ejected from the stressed body.

One way Jupiter can do this is by first producing a big storm, rich in minerals. This storm will have a dark brown or red colour. It may last for centuries and it may never be ejected. However, under sufficient stress, Jupiter will eject the mineral rich storm.

The famous red spot on Jupiter isn’t just a storm. It’s an embryonic moon.

This embryo can either return to nothing, absorbed by Jupiter itself, or it can compact into an intensely hot and charged ball the size of a moon or a planet.

[Large storm ejected from Jupiter in the form of a moon, img79]

At the moment, the red spot on Jupiter is becoming smaller, rounder and taller. If this continues, Jupiter will give birth to yet another child.

Should that happen, we must hope that the birth is relatively uneventful and that the child quickly settles in among its siblings as yet another moon of Jupiter, because a white-hot extremely charged body emanating from Jupiter is a very accurate description of the rogue planet we have been looking for.

Putting all the evidence together, we get the following description of the fateful events that led to the destruction of Phaeton.

Already under considerable stress, possibly due to a galactic super-wave, Jupiter was antagonized by the smaller planets closer to the sun. They lined up in the direction of Jupiter, allowing for a freer flow of energy from the Sun to Jupiter.

The additional energy provoked the birth of a planet with sufficient momentum to escape the gravitational pull of Jupiter. The new planet raced towards the Sun, following the electric current set up by the planetary alignment.

[Planetary alignment and path of rogue planet, img80]

The rogue planet was on a collision course with Phaeton, Mars and Earth.

Unloading the bulk of its charge on Phaeton, it obliterated it. On its way passed Mars, it scarred it badly. By the time it reached Earth, it had unloaded most of its charge. Yet, it was still able to zap Grand Canyon into our planet.





Jupiter’s Daughter

The rogue planet that once roamed our solar system appears to have been a stray child of Jupiter.

According to Greek legend, that child is Venus. Born from a storm, and able to throw punches like her father, she caused all sorts of trouble. Beneath her brilliant exterior hides a wild child with a mind of her own.

Could it be that the Greeks had it right? From what we have been able to deduce about the rogue planet, it certainly seems so. The planet we are looking for is a relatively large rock planet, most likely with a thick atmosphere. That sure sounds like Venus.

Taking a closer look at Venus, we notice something odd. She’s rotating very slowly, and she’s rotating the opposite way of all the other planets.

Other planets in the solar system rotate at speeds related to their size and energy. Big planets with thick atmospheres spin faster than smaller, rocky planets.

But Venus is hardly spinning at all. In fact, she’s slowing down. It’s as if she’s being slowed down by the Sun and ordered to spin the other way. She’s like a newcomer to the solar system, still trying to learn the rules of the game.

But most telling of all is what she’s hiding under her thick atmosphere. There are scars all over her surface, as if she’s been in fights with several other planets.

[Global radar view of Venus (without the clouds) from Magellan between 1990 and 1994 By NASA - http://photojournal.jpl.nasa.gov/catalog/PIA00104, Public domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=11826, img81]

It appears that we’ve found our culprit. Venus was the rogue planet that caused so much damage to our solar system, and she really is the daughter of Jupiter, as Greek mythology has it.
