Url: https://www.universeofparticles.com/the-electric-universe/
Format: e-book
Text (multiline):

The Electric Universe

In the physics laid out in this book, gravity takes a side-role to electricity. Gravity is due to a tiny imbalance in the electrical force. It’s of little importance in monumental events, such as those described in the chapters above.

Gravity is only a significant force when there’s electric stability. It’s therefore a mistake to assume that what we see in the universe is primarily due to gravity.

This isn’t a new idea. Kristian Birkeland recognized the importance of currents in space as early as the late 19th century. He explained both the auroras and Saturn’s rings in terms of electricity. In his terella experiment, he reproduced Saturn’s rings in his laboratory.

[Kristian Birkeland and his terrella experiment Public Domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=307997, img82]

Following in Kristian Birkeland’s footsteps, Hannes Alfvén received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1970 for his work on magnetohydrodynamics, one of his many theories related to electric plasma in space.

The idea that Venus is a relatively new body emanating from Jupiter was first suggested by Immanuel Velikovsky in his book Worlds in Collisions, published in 1950. Velikovsky’s version is more elaborate and reliant on ancient myths than the version presented in this book. However, the basic premises and conclusions are the same.

Inspired by Velikovsky’s work, Ralph Juergens proposed an electric model for the Sun in 1972.

Today, Wallace Thornhill and David Talbott are the main proponents of the idea that the universe is driven by electromagnetic forces. Through their Thunderbolt Project, they have produced a wealth of easily accessible material that they have made available on the web.

Many others have also come to the conclusion that electricity, rather than gravity, is the driving force of the cosmos.




Currents in Space

In a picture taken by the Hubble Space Telescope, a jet of matter can be seen ejected from the centre of a galaxy. The jet is 4,400 light-year long.

[Plasma jet ejected by a galaxy By NASA and The Hubble Heritage Team (STScI/AURA) HubbleSite: gallery, release., Public Domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=102873. img83]

The fact that the jet hardly disperses over such a long distance suggests that it’s highly charged. A strong magnetic field is required to keep something like this together over such a long distance, and the most likely source of that magnetic field is the jet itself.

Charged gases such as these are generally referred to as electric plasma. Their behaviours are different from electrical neutral gases. For one thing, they can keep together for enormous distances without dispersing.

Donald Scott, a contributor to the Thundrerbolt Project, has an insightful lecture on this topic, worth looking up on the web for those interested in more information on this. In the same lecture, he discusses the mechanisms behind planetary formations.




Birth of Stars and Planets

There’s no lack of evidence for plasma currents in space, and these currents come in all sizes.

There are the truly huge ones, stringing galaxies together like pearls on a string. Then there are the big ones that do the same for stars. Then there are the relatively small ones connecting planets to their central star. These are responsible for the auroras that we see in the atmosphere of planets.

The overall impression is that of a neural network with stars and galaxies forming the nodes and the plasma currents forming the synapses.

In all of this, there are the occasional bright flashes. These are the so called supernovas.

Standard cosmology attribute these flashes to the death of stars. However, Donald Scott suggests otherwise. He sees them as the births of stars and planets.

As we have already discussed regarding Jupiter and Venus, large planets with thick mineral rich atmospheres can give birth to smaller objects by ejecting a highly charged body the size of a planet or moon.

Stars can do this too. But when they do, the size of the object ejected is that much larger. Large stars can sweat off objects the size of gas giants or small stars.

This explains why binary star systems are relatively common, and why gas giants can be found very close to stars.

All of this is accompanied by bright flashes. However, only the brightest of them are categorised as a supernova, and to explain the most energetic flashes, something much bigger must be going on.

The biggest supernovas are most likely due to short circuiting of large plasma currents. The technical term for such a short circuit is a z-pinch, and it has the effect of pulling matter together.

A z-pinch can be produced in a laboratory.

[Pinched aluminium can, produced from a pulsed magnetic field By Bert Hickman, CC BY-SA 3.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=28083081, img84]

As can be seen in the above picture, a z-pinch can crush an aluminium can.

Keeping in mind that electricity scales well from small to enormous, we can now imagine a dusty, mineral rich plasma current with a diameter many times that of a solar system.

Such a current would be like an enormous cylinder with several layers of positively and negatively charged tubes nested inside each other.

In balance with itself, the current will be cold and invisible. However, should such a current short circuit, there would be an enormous flash, followed by a lingering glow.

The glow will be visible as an hourglass shape similar to the crushed aluminium can depicted above.

[The Hourglass Nebula (MyCn18), a supernova remnant By NASA, R. Sahai, J. Trauger (JPL), and The WFPC2 Science Team - http://www.spacetelescope.org/images/opo9607a/, Public Domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=1849193, img85]

The pinch takes only a few hours to form. At its centre is a brand new star, quite possibly surrounded by planets with moons.




The Electric Sun

Our Sun is thought to be a big ball of gas with a fusion reactor at its core that produces all the heat that radiates from it. However, at closer inspection, the Sun doesn’t look anything like what this theory suggests.

The surface of the Sun, the so called photosphere, looks suspiciously like a liquid. It can produce giant fountains and arches that drip back onto its surface.

When there’s a hole in the photosphere that we can peek through, there is nothing to suggest that there is anything going on underneath. Sunspots are black and cool compared to the photosphere.

[Sun with sunspots By Geoff Elston - Society for Popular Astronomy, Solar section, http://www.popastro.com/solar/solarobserving/chapter.php?id_pag=30, CC BY 4.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=35976640, img86]

The hottest part of the Sun isn’t close to its core. It’s in its corona, thousands of miles above its surface.

This is all indicative of electricity. A big difference in voltage potential can accelerate charged particles to enormous speeds, making them increasingly hot as they accelerate towards space. A surface bombarded by charged particles can get so hot that it melts.

It appears that the current that created the solar system in the first place continues to flow, and that this current powers our Sun.

The photosphere isn’t a gas but liquid rock.

Under the photosphere, where it’s relatively cool, stars are solid.

Stars aren’t made of materials significantly different from planets, comets and meteorites. There’s no difference between a star and a planet except for size.

Stars are hotter than planets because they’re bigger and therefore the focal point of interstellar currents.

The abundance of hydrogen and helium seen in the light spectra of stars are due to fission, and not due to an abundance of these elements in the star itself.

All astronomic bodies are predominantly made of rock of various kinds. Large planets like Jupiter and Saturn are able to hold onto thick atmospheres, but it’s a mistake to think that they have no solid surface. They too have rocky surfaces, and so does our Sun.





Stars as Electrical Accelerators

Note that the above hypothesis assumes that nuclear fission is taking place in the corona of the Sun, and possibly in the chromosphere and photosphere as well.

[Sun's corona and chromosphere, visible to the naked eye during a total eclipse By I, Luc Viatour, CC BY-SA 3.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=1107408, img87]

Nuclear fission is an exothermic reaction for all elements heavier than iron, and quite possibly for lighter elements as well.

This means that energy is added to the external environment through fission of heavy elements. The Sun is an electrical accelerator. It has a greater output of electric energy than its input.

This in turn explains where the cosmic currents come from. The source of the currents that power our Sun is other stars.




Supernovas as Endothermic Heat Sinks

Although extremely hot and bright, supernovas are endothermic. The creation of a solar system pulls energy out of the environment. This energy is used to synthesize heavy elements in the objects formed.

[Supernova SN 1994D, lower left, outshines its home galaxy By NASA/ESA, CC BY 3.0, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=407520, img88]

This leaves us with a balanced universe where stars heat up the environment, and supernovas and mass condensation cool down the environment.





Life-Cycle of Matter

The overall progression of matter goes from light to heavy through mass condensation.

This makes matter more radioactive, and therefore more readily fissionable. This in turn extends the life of stars. The gradual increase in radioactivity allows stars to function as electrical accelerators for longer.

However, the process of mass condensation can’t go on for ever. At some point, all elements will become radioactive. There will only be hydrogen left, all with enormous protons.

It seems unlikely that this is a sustainable state of matter. Such a situation begs for some correcting mechanism. My guess is that protons have an upper limit to their size, and that the proton itself becomes radioactive once that limit is breached.

Once protons start to collapse, a chain reaction ensues, and we get a massive burst of gamma-rays.

Bundled up with these gamma-rays, we find electrons and positrons that soon start the process of mass condensation all over again.

The process may also be subtle, with protons evaporating into low energy radiation that combine to form larger currents. The net result will be much the same. Large currents will emerge, from which mass condensation can start.

Quasars are in turn formed from these currents. They become galaxies. The galaxies develop regions of degenerate matter. The matter collapses into radiation, and the cycle repeats.

[Life-cycle of a galaxy, from quasar to maturity, img89]

This continuous process of creation, growth and destruction of matter solves the problem of heat death through entropy. It allows for a universe that is eternal, with no beginning and no end.
