Title: Electron-Positron Pair
Url: https://www.universeofparticles.com/electron-positron-pair-production/
Format: e-book
Text:
Electron-Positron Pair Production:

Gamma-ray photons are known to spontaneously produce electron-positron pairs when in close proximity of massive atomic nuclei. At the exact moment that a gamma-ray disappears, an electron-positron pair appears.

The standard explanation for this is that virtual electron-positron pairs get transformed into real electron-positron pairs by gamma-rays when inside the strong electric fields of massive atomic nuclei.

However, the spontaneous appearance of an electron-positron pair can just as well be explained as a transformation of the photon itself. If the photon is a compact dielectric configuration consisting of a positive orb and a negative orb, we got all the components required to explain the spontaneous appearance of electron-positron pairs.

[Image "Electron-positron pair production from photon"]

We already know that the electron is a configuration of 1 positive quantum and 2 negative quanta. A positron has the exact same mass as an electron, but with a positive charge. It must therefore consist of 1 negative quantum and 2 positive quanta.

All together we get 3 positive quanta and 3 negative quanta spontaneously appearing from the gamma-ray photon. A photon is therefore constituted of 3 positive and 3 negative quanta.

We can now add the positron and the photon to our list of particles explained entirely in terms of Morton Spears’ particle quanta:

• Proton = 2177 charged quanta in the open state (1089 positive and 1088 negative)
• Neutron = 2180 charged quanta in the open state (1090 positive and 1090 negative)
• Electron = 3 charged quanta in the open state (1 positive and 2 negative)
• Positron = 3 charged quanta in the open state (2 positive and 1 negative)
• Neutrino = 1 neutral quantum in the closed state
• Photon = 6 charged quanta in the closed state (3 positive and 3 negative)

Note that the two particles made up of quanta in the closed state both move at the speed of light.

We can conclude that photons can be transformed into inertial matter through physical manipulations.

When sufficiently stressed, gamma-rays pop like popcorn in a microwave oven. They undergo a transformation from photon to an electron and a positron.

Conversely, we get that an electron that encounters a positron will spontaneously “annihilate” into a gamma-ray photon. This too is well documented in laboratory experiments. However, with our alternative perspective, nothing disappears. The electron-positron pair is not turned into “pure energy”. It is merely popped back into a photon.




Sticky Light:

A recent discovery at MIT further supports the idea that photons may be dielectric, and capable of a phase shift into inertial matter.

Researchers found that photons can stick together into pairs and triplets when passed through a cloud of ultracold rubidium atoms.

The structures formed had mass, and were therefore slowed down a lot. They moved at a speed 100,000 times slower than ordinary light.

The light appears to have gone through a phase shift similar to that observed for electron-positron pair production. However, in this case, we got the additional effect of photons latching onto each other to create structure.

[Image "Quasi-stable matter produced from light"]

Light was, as it were, condensed into matter.

This goes a long way towards proving that photons are dielectric, because it’s in the nature of dielectric matter to interact and form structures.




Four Stable Particles:

Of the six particles described so far, only four are stable. The neutron cannot exist for long outside atomic nuclei, and the positron will quickly find an electron to combine with to produce a photon.

While positrons are highly reactive, combining readily with electrons, neutrons simply fall apart.

The only subatomic particles that are stable enough to exist freely in nature are:

• Proton = 2177 charged quanta in the open state (1089 positive and 1088 negative)
• Electron = 3 charged quanta in the open state (1 positive and 2 negative)
• Photon = 6 charged quanta in the closed state (3 positive and 3 negative)
• Neutrino = 1 neutral quantum in the closed state

[Image "Proton, electron, photon and neutrino"]

The physics laid out in this book doesn’t require a neutron, and doesn’t treat it as a fundamental particle. Instead, it’s considered a composite. It’s a proton with an electron attached to it.

The fact that the proton is incapable of holding onto the electron is telling. It indicates that the electric force, supposedly very strong in the close vicinity of a proton, isn’t really there. A proton cannot hold onto an electron for much more than fifteen minutes.

A stray electron hitting a lone proton will not produce a neutron. The electron will bounce. If the electron has sufficient energy to escape the pull of the proton, it will disappear into space. If not, the electron will be pulled back down to the proton for another bounce.
